# Submissions

## Sending a Manuscript

### Step One

Prepare your manuscript using the [LaTeX template](https://github.com/replication-studies/latex-template).

### Step Two

Fork [this](https://github.com/replication-studies/submissions) repository to your GitHub account.

Copy the Quarto and/or LaTeX files from your manuscript into `lastname-title-year` (e.g., `doe-gravity-2024`) in your forked repository. Include all the files required to render the PDF (e.g., plots).

### Step Three

Do not include data files or any other files that are not required to compile the PDF.

If your manuscript uses raw data, make sure to subset it or prepare files with the plots and/or tables to use them directly in the manuscript.

Move all the raw data and processing code to a separate repository and include a link to it in your manuscript.

### Step Four

Verify that your manuscript compiles without errors on your computer.

### Step Five

Submit a pull request to the [submissions](https://github.com/replication-studies/submissions) repository.

## Reviewing a Manuscript

We'll assign one reviewer to the manuscript. The reviewer will provide feedback on the manuscript and the replication code.

## Checking Scope

The reviewer will check if the manuscript fits the scope of the journal and if it complies with the submission guidelines.

## Applying Changes

If the reviewer consideres the manuscript is acceptable, there may be requested changes that you'll need to apply and answer all
the questions made on the GitHub review.

## Acceptance

Once the reviewer considers the manuscript is ready, it will be accepted for publication and it will get a DOI number. The article
will appear [here](https://github.com/replication-studies/articles).

The articles will be available under the Creative Commons Attribution License. Check the details [here](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/cc-by-4.0/).


## Agreement

By submitting a manuscript to the journal, the authors agree to the following:

* The manuscript is original and has not been published elsewhere.
* The manuscript is not under consideration for publication elsewhere.
* The authors retain the copyright of their work.
* The authors grant the journal the right to publish or not the manuscript under the Creative Commons Attribution License.
* The authors agree to pay the review fees if the manuscript is accepted for publication.

We will contact the authors by email to send a copy of the agreement to be signed after an initial screening of the manuscript.

## Initial screening

The initial screening will be done by the editors. The editors will check if the manuscript fits the scope of the journal and if it complies with
the following standards:

* The manuscript is written in English.
* The manuscript is written using the LaTeX template provided.
* The manuscript has no grammatical or spelling errors.
* The manuscript contains proper citations and references, with no plagiarism or self-plagiarism.
* The manuscript does not present text generated by language models (LLM) as original work.
    * [Here](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.surfin.2024.104081) is an unacceptable use of LLM (e.g., the introduction starts with "Certainly, here is a
      possible introduction for your topic").
    * [Here](https://doi.org/10.1177/08465371231171125) is an acceptable use of LLM (e.g., it is explicit that some of examples were created with ChatGPT)

## Payment

There is payment required to publish in the journal, but the journal is open access and non-profit. The payment is used to cover the
costs of the journal and to pay the reviewers.

The publication fee is charged as follows:

* After a the manuscript is considered acceptable for review, we will charge for the administration costs and the full review, which will be
  30 USD as a baseline plus 30 USD per hour of review, with a cap of total ten (10) total hours of review.
* The reviewer will provide an estimate of the total review time after the article is considered acceptable for publication and before starting the
  review. The authors must agree to these fees and the editors will abide to charge their estimation if their incur in more time than the estimated.
* For articles considered not in scope, there will be no charge for the initial screening.

The publication fees are **not** a guarantee of publication. We will not refund the initial fee if the manuscript is not accepted for publication,
if the authors decide to withdraw the manuscript, or if the authors do not agree with the requested changes.

The payment is made through [Wise](https://wise.com), a secure payment platform. The journal will provide the payment details internally.

## License

Copyright &copy; 2024 Mauricio "Pacha" Vargas Sepulveda. This is an open access template distributed under the Creative Commons Attribution License,
which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.
